# Banking Account Management Application

This application is designed to manage banking accounts for client, as well as their associates.

The application allows performing various operations related to the creation, modification, and management of banking accounts and client.

## Problem Context

The application must handle two main entities: Clients and Banking Accounts.

## Requirements

The application must meet the following requirements:

### Clients

- Create a new client.
- Modify the information of an existing client.
- Enable or disable a client.
- Search for client by name.

### Banking Accounts

- Create new banking accounts, ensuring uniqueness of the account number.
- Associate an existing client with a banking account.
- Modify the details of a banking account.
- Enable or disable a banking account.
- Perform deposits and withdrawals of money in an account.

### Associates

- Create new associates and associate them with existing client.
- Modify the information of an associate.
- Enable or disable an associate.

### Transactions

- Record deposit and withdrawal transactions in banking accounts.
- Generate a balance inquiry report in PDF format.
- Generate a summary of the last 20 transactions in PDF format.
- Export all transactions in a date range to an Excel file.

### Welcome Email Notifications

- Send a welcome email to the client or associate upon registration.
- Include welcome information and an autogenerated password in the email.

## Technologies Used

- Programming language: Java 11 with Spring Boot 2.7.4.
- Library for PDF report generation: iText.
- Library for Excel transactions generation: Apache POI.
- Database: Mariadb.

## Installation and Usage

## Getting Started
Create the .env file, have the .env.sample as an example.

To install this example application, run the following commands:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/joaquincorimayo/back-account-management
cd back-account-management
```

This will get a copy of the project installed locally. To install all of its dependencies and start each app, follow the instructions below.

To run the server, cd into the `server` folder and run:

```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

## Dockerfile
coming soon...

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome. 

If you have suggestions or improvements for the application, please create an issue or send a pull request.

## License

This project is under the MIT License, see [LICENSE](LICENSE.md).

---
[Last README update date: 2023-10-03]
